[MUSIC]
>> Rachel Nabors: We're on
our way to CSS animations.
These are a little bit more
abusable than transitions,
part of that is because CSS
animations aren't supported
because CSS animations don't describe
a change from one state to another.
Transition.
How should we change this property when
it is changed by some CSS animation?
I told you to change that property.
Now do it.
The property isn't gonna change if
the animations aren't readable.
So if you make an interface
that doesn't use transitions,
you're just using
animations on everything.
And animations aren't supported,
then things don't change
the way you think they would.
They're a little bit more tricky.
I hope that I can share with you a little
bit more about how they are tricky.
All right, so
what does animation look like?
They share a lot,
a lot of similarities with transitions.
For instance, you might notice,
I'm gonna actually point here,
gonna use a pointing with my finger
>> Rachel Nabors: So
you'll notice this top line here,
animated thing, has an animation
where a transition property would
be where you put a CSS property,
you actually put the name of a @keyframes
block in this case black to white.
You give it a duration.
You can give it an easing.
But then you notice there's also
this number on the end here.
This one.
What does that mean?
Let's talk a little bit about
the differences between transitions and
animations, and that gets down to this
key frame block, and this number,
which is actually the number of times
you want that animation to run.
So here's how that looks in shorthand.
I've got the name, we've got the duration,
the timing function which is optional,
the delay it has a delay just
like transitions, also optional,
just like transitions, and iteration count
which is optional because it defaults to,
get this, one, just one.
So if you have an animation and you don't
tell it how many times you want it to run,
it will just run once.
In this regard you could use some
light transitions, but you shouldn't.
So let's take a look at each of those.
The animation name is the name of the key
frame block that you want to use.
Well talk a little bit about key frame
blocks and how we set them up later.
Let's just focus on
the animation syntax for now.
The animation's duration, or
how long the animation's going
to take to go from the beginning of that
key frame block all the way to the end,
how long it's going to take to
animate all of those values.
And animation iteration count, or
the number of times you want to go from
that 0% to 100%, you can set it to
infinite which means it will never stop,
it will keep running forever,
it will keep iterating over and over.
Or you could set it to say three,
have the animation repeat three times,
it defaults to one.
The animation will run one runs and
then be done,
and it will evaporate like
it was never there before.
There's also animation-timing-function
which is like transition timing function.
It's so long.
Animation delay,
which is just like transition delay.
All right, I told you were going to
talk about the key frames block.
This is the real magic of CSS animations.
Here you can see, we have key frames.
Key frames blocks named black to white.
Now it starts with a black background and
white color for
all of its text and
then by the time it's done running,
the background is going to be white and
the text is going to be black.
So it's essentially it's essentially
transposing those two values.
Now another way of writing it, instead of
doing 0%, 100%, you could use from and to,
the keywords.
This might help you when you're
getting started with CSS animations.
Instead of using 0%, 100%,
saying you want to take it from these
values to these values can make a little
bit more sense syntactically for you.
However, there are some benefits
to using the percentages.
For instance you can say you want
things to happen like half way through.
We got 0%, 50% and
100% all up in this joint.
And check it out, you can even consolidate
shared values onto the same line.
0% and
100% here have the same color value, so
we can just put a comma between them and
let them share a line.
They're very happy bunkmates.
So if you wanna have multiple animations,
just like with transitions,
you can write them out in longhand by
separating statements with commas.
So here we've got black to white,
it takes one second long.
It's using, it's linear,
it runs once, we didn't actually
have to put that one there.
I did it, black to red takes two seconds,
it's going to use ease out.
It's going to run infinitely and,
just like with transitions,
that second timing value,
that two seconds, that's a delay.
So it takes two seconds before it runs.
Now as you can see,
we could write all of this out with
the longhand via animation-property.
I mean animation-name black-to-white,
black-to-red.
We could do that but at this point that
would get pretty gnarly pretty fast.
So I'm not even gonna cover
writing it out with the longhand.
I mean with the longhand,
we're going to jump right into
using shorthand on this one.